John Locke, An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690), Book II, Chapter XXXII, §§14–16.
Project Gutenberg #10615. Public domain. The inverted-spectrum passage: one man's idea of blue from a violet
may be another man's idea of yellow from a marigold, and it could never be known.

14. First, Simple Ideas in this Sense not false and why.

First, our simple ideas, being barely such perceptions as God has
fitted us to receive, and given power to external objects to produce in
us by established laws and ways, suitable to his wisdom and goodness,
though incomprehensible to us, their truth consists in nothing else but
in such appearances as are produced in us, and must be suitable to
those powers he has placed in external objects or else they could not
be produced in us: and thus answering those powers, they are what they
should be, true ideas. Nor do they become liable to any imputation of
falsehood, if the mind (as in most men I believe it does) judges these
ideas to be in the things themselves. For God in his wisdom having set
them as marks of distinction in things, whereby we may be able to
discern one thing from another, and so choose any of them for our uses
as we have occasion; it alters not the nature of our simple idea,
whether we think that the idea of blue be in the violet itself, or in
our mind only; and only the power of producing it by the texture of its
parts, reflecting the particles of light after a certain manner, to be
in the violet itself. For that texture in the object, by a regular and
constant operation producing the same idea of blue in us, it serves us
to distinguish, by our eyes, that from any other thing; whether that
distinguishing mark, as it is really in the violet, be only a peculiar
texture of parts, or else that very colour, the idea whereof (which is
in us) is the exact resemblance. And it is equally from that appearance
to be denominated blue, whether it be that real colour, or only a
peculiar texture in it, that causes in us that idea: since the name,
BLUE, notes properly nothing but that mark of distinction that is in a
violet, discernible only by our eyes, whatever it consists in; that
being beyond our capacities distinctly to know, and perhaps would be of
less use to us, if we had faculties to discern.

15. Though one Man’s Idea of Blue should be different from another’s.

Neither would it carry any imputation of falsehood to our simple ideas,
if by the different structure of our organs it were so ordered, that
THE SAME OBJECT SHOULD PRODUCE IN SEVERAL MEN’S MINDS DIFFERENT IDEAS
at the same time; v.g. if the idea that a violet produced in one man’s
mind by his eyes were the same that a marigold produced in another
man’s, and vice versa. For, since this could never be known, because
one man’s mind could not pass into another man’s body, to perceive what
appearances were produced by those organs; neither the ideas hereby,
nor the names, would be at all confounded, or any falsehood be in
either. For all things that had the texture of a violet, producing
constantly the idea that he called blue, and those which had the
texture of a marigold, producing constantly the idea which he as
constantly called yellow, whatever those appearances were in his mind;
he would be able as regularly to distinguish things for his use by
those appearances, and understand and signify those distinctions marked
by the name blue and yellow, as if the appearances or ideas in his mind
received from those two flowers were exactly the same with the ideas in
other men’s minds. I am nevertheless very apt to think that the
sensible ideas produced by any object in different men’s minds, are
most commonly very near and undiscernibly alike. For which opinion, I
think, there might be many reasons offered: but that being besides my
present business, I shall not trouble my reader with them; but only
mind him, that the contrary supposition, if it could be proved, is of
little use, either for the improvement of our knowledge, or conveniency
of life, and so we need not trouble ourselves to examine it.

16. Simple Ideas can none of them be false in respect of real
existence.

From what has been said concerning our simple ideas, I think it evident
that our simple ideas can none of them be false in respect of things
existing without us. For the truth of these appearances or perceptions
in our minds consisting, as has been said, only in their being
